# KaptuyaSTDM.github.io
Baringo county is an Arid and Semi-arid region, its characteristics and challenges are not to be neglected. The area is characterized by extensive rangelands, communally owned land, pastoralism, extreme climate change, famine, floods, poverty, human-animal conflicts, tribal conflicts among the community, and many challenges. with the extensive land and lack of land tenure at a local level, exploitation of the land without regulation is very high. There is a gap in the conventional land administration systems such that customary and informal tenure cannot be easily handled. There is a need for complimentary approaches in land administration. The concept of the Social Tenure Domain Model is to bridge this gap by providing a standard for representing ‘peoples land’ relationships independent of the level of formality, legality, and technical accuracy. The STDM has been used in very many cases in both Africa and more importantly Kenya. In Kenya, the model has been used mostly in urban informal settlements. The objective of the use of STDM in the Kaptuya conservancy is used to create a topo cadastral map of the conservancy to enable the stakeholders to effectively plan the land use land cover within the conservancy to enable effective cohabitation of the animals and humans. The land use land cover plan will reduce land conflicts and encourage the pastoralist community to have planned grazings, therefore, solving the fights on resources that are majorly experienced in the pastoralist community.  The STDM plugin is installed in Qgis and the database is created. The model has four sections; party including the people, person, group, or groups owning the land, that has the social tenure relationship including land rights, occupancy, customary tenure, tenancy, ownership, rent, leases, permits, and any other, with a spatial unit that includes land, property, structure, natural resources, objects, etc. and all these are supported by supporting documents that have been scanned i.e. sketches from individuals or the community, audio recordings, photos, documented histories, and many other relevant documents. The need for efficient land recordation tools and the use of ICT has become a necessity and increasingly becoming more available in recent times. The STDM information tool provides the front-end interface for testing and applying the STDM concept and model. Building from the STDM prototype version and in adherence to GLTN core values (e.g. pro-poor, equity, affordability, good governance, subsidiarity, gender sensitiveness, systematic large scale approach, and sustainability), UN-Habitat/GLTN together with its implementing partners, has supported the continuous development of the information tool in a variety of application areas ranging from informal settlement upgrading to natural resource management. The data is collected from different methods from the sketches from the community, satellite images, and ground-truthing from GPS coordinates picked. The data is then processed and a database is created and a topo-cadastral map is created. The topo-cadastral map is then used to create a land use land cover plan for effective conservation. with the digitization phase that the country is in right now, this research is a step forward toward the desired goals. 
